
--- Page 1 ---
INCLUDES
Course framework
Instructional
section
Sample exam
questions
Classroom poster
AP®
Microeconomics
COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTION
Effective
Fall 2022
--- Page 2 ---
AP®
Microeconomics
COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTION
Effective
Fall 2022
AP COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTIONS ARE UPDATED PERIODICALLY
Please visit AP Central ( ) to determine whether
apcentral.collegeboard.org
a more recent course and exam description is available.
--- Page 3 ---
What AP® Stands For
Thousands of Advanced Placement teachers have contributed to the principles
articulated here. These principles are not new; they are, rather, a reminder of how AP
already works in classrooms nationwide. The following principles are designed to ensure
that teachers’ expertise is respected, required course content is understood, and that
students are academically challenged and free to make up their own minds.
1. A Pstandsforclarityandtransparency.Teachersandstudentsdeserveclear
expectations. The Advanced Placement Program makes public its course
frameworks and sample assessments. Confusion about what is permitted in the
classroom disrupts teachers and students as they navigate demanding work.
2. APisanunflinchingencounterwithevidence.APcoursesenablestudentstodevelop
as independent thinkers and to draw their own conclusions. Evidence and the
scientificmethodarethestartingplaceforconversationsinAPcourses.
3. A Popposescensorship.APisanimatedbyadeeprespectfortheintellectual
freedom of teachers and students alike. If a school bans required topics from their
AP courses, the AP Program removes the AP designation from that course and
its inclusion in the AP Course Ledger provided to colleges and universities. For
example, the concepts of evolution are at the heart of college biology, and a course
that neglects such concepts does not pass muster as AP Biology.
4. APopposesindoctrination.APstudentsareexpectedtoanalyzedifferent
perspectives from their own, and no points on an AP Exam are awarded for
agreementwithanyspecificviewpoint.APstudentsarenotrequiredtofeel
certain ways about themselves or the course content. AP courses instead develop
students’ abilities to assess the credibility of sources, draw conclusions, and make
up their own minds.
As the AP English Literature course description states: “AP students are not
expectedoraskedtosubscribetoanyonespecificsetofculturalorpoliticalvalues,
butareexpectedtohavethematuritytoanalyzeperspectivesdifferentfromtheir
ownandtoquestionthemeaning,purpose,oreffectofsuchcontentwithinthe
literary work as a whole.”
5. APcoursesfosteranopen-mindedapproachtothehistoriesandculturesof
differentpeoples.Thestudyofdifferentnationalities,cultures,religions,races,and
ethnicities is essential within a variety of academic disciplines. AP courses ground
such studies in primary sources so that students can evaluate experiences and
evidence for themselves.
6. EveryAPstudentwhoengageswithevidenceislistenedtoandrespected.
Students are encouraged to evaluate arguments but not one another. AP
classrooms respect diversity in backgrounds, experiences, and viewpoints. The
perspectives and contributions of the full range of AP students are sought and
considered. Respectful debate of ideas is cultivated and protected; personal
attacks have no place in AP.
7. APisachoiceforparentsandstudents.Parentsandstudentsfreelychooseto
enroll in AP courses. Course descriptions are available online for parents and
studentstoinformtheirchoice.Parentsdonotdefinewhichcollege-leveltopics
are suitable within AP courses; AP course and exam materials are crafted by
committeesofprofessorsandotherexperteducatorsineachfield.APcoursesand
exams are then further validated by the American Council on Education and studies
thatconfirmtheuseofAPscoresforcollegecreditsbythousandsofcollegesand
universities nationwide.
The AP Program encourages educators to review these principles with parents and
students so they know what to expect in an AP course. Advanced Placement is always
achoice,anditshouldbeaninformedone.APteachersshouldbegiventheconfidence
and clarity that once parents have enrolled their child in an AP course, they have agreed
to a classroom experience that embodies these principles.
© 2025 The Advanced Placement Program, AP, AP Central, and the acorn logo are registered trademarks
of the College Board. All other products and services may be trademarks of their respective owners. Visit
College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
--- Page 4 ---
Contents
v
Acknowledgments
1
About AP
4
AP Resources and Supports
6
Instructional Model
7
About the AP Microeconomics Course
7
College Course Equivalent
7
Prerequisites
COURSE FRAMEWORK
11
Introduction
13
Course Framework Components
15
Course Skills
17
Course Content
20
Course at a Glance
23
Unit Guides
25
Using the Unit Guides
29 UNIT 1:
Basic Economic Concepts
41 UNIT 2:
Supply and Demand
57 UNIT 3:
Production, Cost, and the Perfect Competition Model
71 UNIT 4:
Imperfect Competition
83 UNIT 5:
Factor Markets
93 UNIT 6:
Market Failure and the Role of Government
INSTRUCTIONAL APPROACHES
107
Selecting and Using Course Materials
108
Teaching the AP Economics Courses
109
Instructional Strategies
113
Developing Course Skills
EXAM INFORMATION
121
Exam Overview
126
Sample Exam Questions
SCORING GUIDELINES
137
Question 1: Long
141
Question 2: Short
APPENDIX
145
AP Microeconomics Conceptual Framework
165
AP Microeconomics Graphs and Visuals
--- Page 5 ---
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
--- Page 6 ---
Acknowledgments
College Board would like to acknowledge the following committee
members, consultants, and reviewers for their assistance with and
commitment to the development of this course. All individuals and their
affiliationswerecurrentatthetimeofcontribution.
Nicholas Anello, Homewood-Flossmoor High School, Flossmoor, IL
David Burgin, Science Hill High School, Johnson City, TN
Peter Duffer, Buffalo Grove High School, Buffalo Grove, IL
Joshua Hayes, St. George’s High School, Spokane, WA
Thomas Kinnaman, Bucknell University, Lewisburg, PA
Mary Kohelis, Weirton Madonna High School, Weirton, WV
Dee Mecham, The Bishop’s School, La Jolla, CA
Lynda Motiram, Dulaney High School, Lutherville-Timonium, MD
Matthew Pedlow, Chelsea High School, Chelsea, MI
Esther Redmount, Colorado College, Colorado Springs, CO
Martha Rush, Mounds View High School, Arden Hills, MN
Pamela Schmitt, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD
Patrick Scholten, Bentley University, Waltham, MA
Please note that the course framework included in this document was
inspired by work originally undertaken by the AP Microeconomics
Curriculum Development and Assessment Committee.
College Board Staff
Elizabeth Healy, Director, AP Economics Content and
Instructional Development
Dana Kopelman, Executive Director, AP Content Integration and
Change Management
Daniel McDonough, Senior Director, AP Content Integration
Allison Milverton, Director, AP Curricular Publications
Allison Thurber, Executive Director, AP Curriculum and Assessment
SPECIAL THANKS Christopher Budano and John R. Williamson
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description  V.1 | v
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 7 ---
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
--- Page 8 ---
About AP
College Board’s Advanced Placement® Program (AP®) to provide teachers and students with formative
enables willing and academically prepared students assessments—PersonalProgressChecks—that
topursuecollege-levelstudies—withtheopportunity teachers can assign throughout the year to measure
to earn college credit, advanced placement, or student progress as they acquire content knowledge
both—whilestillinhighschool.ThroughAPcourses and develop skills.
in 38 subjects, each culminating in a challenging
Enrolling Students: Access,
exam, students learn to think critically, construct solid
arguments,andseemanysidesofanissue—skills Opportunity, and Readiness
that prepare them for college and beyond. Taking
APcoursesdemonstratestocollegeadmissionofficers The AP Program welcomes all students willing to
that students have sought the most challenging challengethemselveswithcollege-levelcoursework
curriculum available to them, and research indicates and career preparation. We strongly encourage
that students who score a 3 or higher on an AP Exam educators to invite students into AP classes,
typically experience greater academic success in including students from ethnic, racial, socioeconomic,
college and are more likely to earn a college degree geographic, or other groups not broadly participating in
thannon-APstudents.EachAPteacher’ssyllabus a school’s AP program. We believe that readiness for AP
is evaluated and approved by faculty from some of is attainable, and that educators can expand readiness
the nation’s leading colleges and universities, and byopeningaccesstoPre-APcoursework.Wecommit
AP Exams are developed and scored by college faculty tosupporteducatorsandcommunitiesintheirefforts
andexperiencedAPteachers.Mostfour-yearcolleges to make AP courses widely available, advancing
and universities in the United States grant credit, students in their plans for college and careers.
advanced placement, or both on the basis of successful
Offering AP Courses:
AP Exam scores; more than 3,300 institutions worldwide
annually receive AP scores. The AP Course Audit
AP Course Development The AP Program unequivocally supports the principle
that each school implements its own curriculum
Inanongoingefforttomaintainalignmentwithbest that will enable students to develop the content
practicesincollege-levellearning,APcoursesand understandings and skills described in the course
examsemphasizechallenging,research-based framework.
curricula aligned with higher education expectations.
While the unit sequence represented in this publication
Individual teachers are responsible for designing their is optional, the AP Program does have a short list of
own curriculum for AP courses, selecting appropriate curricular and resource requirements that must be
college-levelreadings,assignments,andresources. fulfilledbeforeaschoolcanlabelacourse“Advanced
This course and exam description presents the content Placement”or“AP.”SchoolswishingtoofferAP courses
and skills that are the focus of the corresponding must participate in the AP Course Audit, a process
college course and that appear on the AP Exam. It also through which AP teachers’ course materials are
organizesthecontentandskillsintoaseriesofunits reviewed by college faculty. The AP Course Audit
that represent a sequence found in widely adopted was created to provide teachers and administrators
college textbooks and that many AP teachers have with clear guidelines on curricular and resource
told us they follow in order to focus their instruction. requirements for AP courses and to help colleges and
The intention of this publication is to respect teachers’ universities validate courses marked “AP” on students’
time and expertise by providing a roadmap that they transcripts. This process ensures that AP teachers’
can modify and adapt to their local priorities and courses meet or exceed the curricular and resource
preferences.Moreover,byorganizingtheAPcourse expectations that college and secondary school faculty
content and skills into units, the AP Program is able haveestablishedforcollege-levelcourses.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description  V.1 | 1
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 9 ---
The AP Course Audit form is submitted by the questionsandthrough-courseperformance
AP teacherandtheschoolprincipal(ordesignated assessments, as applicable, are scored by thousands
administrator)toconfirmawarenessandunderstanding of college faculty and expert AP teachers. Most are
of the curricular and resource requirements. A syllabus scored at the annual AP Reading, while a small portion
or course outline, detailing how course requirements is scored online. All AP Readers are thoroughly trained,
are met, is submitted by the AP teacher for review by and their work is monitored throughout the Reading
college faculty. for fairness and consistency. In each subject, a highly
respected college faculty member serves as Chief
Please visit the AP Course Audit website for more
Faculty Consultant and, with the help of AP Readers
information to support the preparation and submission
in leadership positions, maintains the accuracy of
of materials for the AP Course Audit.
thescoringstandards.Scoresonthefree-response
How the AP Program questions and performance assessments are weighted
andcombinedwiththeresultsofthecomputer-scored
Is Developed
multiple-choicequestions,andthisrawscoreis
converted into a composite AP score on a 1–5 scale.
The scope of content for an AP course and exam is
derived from an analysis of hundreds of syllabi and AP Exams are notnorm-referencedorgradedonacurve.
courseofferingsofcollegesanduniversities.Using Instead,theyarecriterion-referenced,whichmeansthat
this research and data, a committee of college faculty every student who meets the criteria for an AP score of
and expert AP teachers work within the scope of 2, 3, 4, or 5 will receive that score, no matter how many
the corresponding college course to articulate what students that is. The criteria for the number of points
students should know and be able to do upon the students must earn on the AP Exam to receive scores
completion of the AP course. The resulting course of3,4,or5—thescoresthatresearchconsistently
framework is the heart of this course and exam validatesforcreditandplacementpurposes—include:
description and serves as a blueprint of the content and §
The number of points successful college students
skills that can appear on an AP Exam.
earn when their professors administer AP Exam
The AP Test Development Committees are responsible questions to them.
for developing each AP Exam, ensuring the exam §
The number of points researchers have found
questions are aligned to the course framework. The
to be predictive that an AP student will succeed
AP Exam development process is a multiyear endeavor;
whenplacedintoasubsequenthigher-level
all AP Exams undergo extensive review, revision,
college course.
piloting, and analysis to ensure that questions are §
Achievement-leveldescriptionsformulatedby
accurate, fair, and valid, and that there is an appropriate
college faculty who review each AP Exam question.
spreadofdifficultyacrossthequestions.
Using and Interpreting AP Scores
Committee members are selected to represent a variety
of perspectives and institutions (public and private,
The extensive work done by college faculty and
small and large schools and colleges), and a range of
AP teachers in the development of the course and
gender, racial/ethnic, and regional groups. A list of each
exam and throughout the scoring process ensures
subject’s current AP Test Development Committee
that AP Exam scores accurately represent students’
members is available on AP Central®.
achievement in the equivalent college course. Frequent
Throughout AP course and exam development, and regular research studies establish the validity of
College Board gathers feedback from various AP scores as follows:
stakeholders in both secondary schools and higher
Credit College Grade
education institutions. This feedback is carefully
AP Score Recommendation Equivalent
considered to ensure that AP courses and exams are
abletoprovidestudentswithacollege-levellearning 5
Extremelywellqualified A
experience and the opportunity to demonstrate their
qualificationsforadvancedplacementorcollegecredit. 4
Wellqualified A-,B+,B
How AP Exams Are Scored 3
Qualified B-,C+,C
The exam scoring process, like the course and exam 2
Possiblyqualified n/a
development process, relies on the expertise of both
APteachersandcollegefaculty.Whilemultiple-choice 1 No recommendation n/a
questionsarescoredbymachine,thefree-response
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description  V.1 | 2
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 10 ---
While colleges and universities are responsible for educators—makeimprovementstothewaythey
setting their own credit and placement policies, most teach or score because of their experience at the
private colleges and universities award credit and/ AP Reading.
or advanced placement for AP scores of 3 or higher. §
Gain in-depth understanding of AP Exam and
Additionally, most states in the U.S. have adopted
AP scoring standards: AP Readers gain exposure
statewide credit policies that ensure college credit
to the quality and depth of the responses from the
for scores of 3 or higher at public colleges and
entire pool of AP Exam takers, and thus are better
universities.Toconfirmaspecificcollege’sAPcredit/
able to assess their students’ work in the classroom.
placement policy, use the search engine available on §
Receive compensation: AP Readers are
the AP Credit Policy Search page.
compensated for their work during the Reading.
BECOMING AN AP READER Expenses, lodging, and meals are covered for
Readers who travel.
Each June, thousands of AP teachers and college §
Score from home: AP Readers have online
faculty members from around the world gather for
distributed scoring opportunities for certain subjects.
seven days in multiple locations to evaluate and
Check the AP Reader site for details.
scorethefree-responsesectionsoftheAPExams.
§
Ninety-eightpercentofsurveyededucatorswhotook Earn Continuing Education Units (CEUs):
part in the AP Reading say it was a positive experience. AP Readers earn professional development hours
and CEUs that can be applied to PD requirements
There are many reasons to consider becoming an
by states, districts, and schools.
AP Reader, including opportunities to:
§ How to Apply
Bring positive changes to the classroom:
Surveys show that the vast majority of returning Visit the Become an AP Reader site for eligibility
APReaders—bothhighschoolandcollege requirements and to start the application process.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description  V.1 | 3
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 11 ---
AP Resources
and Supports
By completing a simple activation process at the start of the school year, teachers and
students receive access to a robust set of classroom resources.
AP Classroom
AP Classroom is a dedicated online platform designed to support teachers and students
throughout their AP experience. The platform provides a variety of powerful resources and
tools to provide yearlong support to teachers and enable students to receive meaningful
feedback on their performance.
UNIT GUIDES
Appearing in this publication and on AP Classroom, these planning guides outline all required
coursecontentandskills,organizedintocommonlytaughtunits.Eachunitguidesuggestsa
sequenceandpacingofcontent,scaffoldsskillinstructionacrossunits,organizescontent
into topics, and provides tips on taking the AP Exam.
PERSONAL PROGRESS CHECKS
Formative AP questions for every unit provide feedback to students on the areas where they
need to focus. Available online, Personal Progress Checks measure knowledge and skills
throughmultiple-choicequestionswithrationalestoexplaincorrectandincorrectanswers,
andfree-responsequestionswithscoringinformation.BecausethePersonalProgress
Checks are formative, the results of these assessments cannot be used to evaluate teacher
effectivenessorassignlettergradestostudents,andanysuchmisusesaregroundsforlosing
schoolauthorizationtoofferAPcourses.*
PROGRESS DASHBOARD
This dashboard allows teachers to review class and individual student progress throughout
the year. Teachers can view class trends and see where students struggle with content and
skills that will be assessed on the AP Exam. Students can view their own progress over time to
improve their performance before the AP Exam.
AP QUESTION BANK
This online library of real AP Exam questions provides teachers with secure questions to use
intheirclassrooms.Teacherscanfindquestionsindexedbycoursetopicsandskills,create
customizedtests,andassignthemonlineoronpaper.Thesetestsenablestudentstopractice
and get feedback on each question.
*Toreportmisuses,pleasecall,877-274-6474(International:+1-212-632-1781).
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description  V.1 | 4
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 12 ---
Digital Activation
In order to teach an AP class and make sure students are registered to take the AP Exam,
teachersmustfirstcompletethedigitalactivationprocess.Digitalactivationgivesstudents
and teachers access to resources and gathers students’ exam registration information online,
eliminating most of the answer sheet bubbling that has added to testing time and fatigue.
AP teachers and students begin by signing in to My AP and completing a simple activation
process at the start of the school year, which provides access to all AP resources, including
AP Classroom.
To complete digital activation:
§
Teachers and students sign in to or create their College Board accounts.
§
TeachersconfirmthattheyhaveaddedthecoursetheyteachtotheirAPCourseAudit
account and have had it approved by their school’s administrator.
§
Teachers or AP Coordinators, depending on who the school has decided is responsible,
set up class sections so students can access AP resources and have exams ordered on
their behalf.
§
Students join class sections with a join code provided by their teacher or AP Coordinator.
§
Studentswillbeaskedforadditionalregistrationinformationuponjoiningtheirfirstclass
section, which eliminates the need for extensive answer sheet bubbling on exam day.
While the digital activation process takes a short time for teachers, students, and
AP Coordinators to complete, overall it helps save time and provides the following
additionalbenefits:
§
Access to AP resources and supports:Teachershaveaccesstoresourcesspecifically
designed to support instruction and provide feedback to students throughout the school
year as soon as activation is complete.
§
Streamlined exam ordering: AP Coordinators can create exam orders from the same
online class rosters that enable students to access resources. The coordinator reviews,
updates, and submits this information as the school’s exam order in the fall.
§
Student registration labels: For each student included in an exam order, schools will
receiveasetofpersonalizedAPIDregistrationlabels,whichreplacestheAPstudentpack.
The AP ID connects a student’s exam materials with the registration information they
providedduringdigitalactivation,eliminatingtheneedforpre-administrationsessionsand
reducing time spent bubbling on exam day.
§
Targeted Instructional Planning Reports: AP teachers will get Instructional Planning
Reports (IPRs) that include data on each of their class sections automatically rather than
relying on special codes optionally bubbled in on exam day.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description  V.1 | 5
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 13 ---
Instructional
Model
Integrating AP resources throughout the course can help students develop skills and
conceptual understandings. The instructional model outlined below shows possible ways to
incorporate AP resources into the classroom.
Plan
Teachers may consider the following approaches as they plan their instruction before
teaching each unit.
§
Review the overview at the start of each unit guide to identify essential questions,
conceptual understandings, and skills for each unit.
§
Use the Unit at a Glance table to identify related topics that build toward a common
understanding, and then plan appropriate pacing for students.
§
Identify useful strategies in the Instructional Approaches section to help teach the
concepts and skills.
Teach
When teaching, supporting resources can be used to build students’ conceptual
understanding and their mastery of skills.
§
Use the topic pages in the unit guides to identify the required content.
§
Integratethecontentwithaskill,consideringanyappropriatescaffolding.
§
Employanyoftheinstructionalstrategiespreviouslyidentified.
§
Use the available resources on the topic pages to bring a variety of assets into
the classroom.
Assess
Teachers can measure student understanding of the content and skills covered in the unit and
provide actionable feedback to students.
§
At the end of each unit, use AP Classroom to assign students the online Personal
Progress Checks,ashomeworkorasanin-classtask.
§
Providequestion-levelfeedbacktostudentsthroughanswerrationales;provideunit-and
skill-levelfeedbackusingtheprogressdashboard.
§
Create additional practice opportunities using the AP Question Bank and assign them
through AP Classroom.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description  V.1 | 6
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 14 ---
About the AP
Microeconomics Course
APMicroeconomicsisacollege-levelcoursethatintroducesstudentstotheprinciples
ofeconomicsthatapplytothefunctionsofindividualeconomicdecision-makers.The
course also develops students’ familiarity with the operation of product and factor markets,
distributions of income, market failure, and the role of government in promoting greater
efficiencyandequityintheeconomy.Studentslearntousegraphs,charts,anddatato
analyze,describe,andexplaineconomicconcepts.
College Course Equivalent
APMicroeconomicsisequivalenttoaone-semesterintroductorycollegecourse
in economics.
Prerequisites
There are no prerequisites for AP Microeconomics. Students should be able to read a
college-leveltextbookandpossessbasicmathematicsandgraphingskills.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description  V.1 | 7
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 15 ---
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
--- Page 16 ---
COURSE
FRAMEWORK
AP MICROECONOMICS
Course
Framework
--- Page 18 ---
Introduction
The AP Microeconomics course outlined in this framework reflects a
commitment to what economics teachers, professors, and researchers
have agreed is the main goal of a college-level microeconomics course:
to introduce students to the principles that apply to individual economic
decision-makers.
The AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description Although the course framework is designed to provide
definesconcepts,skills,andunderstandingsrequired a clear and detailed description of the course content
by representative colleges and universities for granting andskills,itisnotacurriculum.Acollege-leveltextbook
college credit and placement. The course prepares that covers the required course content should be
students to think like economists by using principles used, and teachers create their own curricula to meet
and models to describe economic situations and predict the needs of their students and any state or local
and explain outcomes. Like economists, students do requirements.
so by using graphs, charts, and data.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description CourseFramework V.1 | 11
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 19 ---
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
--- Page 20 ---
Course Framework
Components
Overview
This course framework provides a clear and detailed description of the course
requirements necessary for student success.
The course framework includes
two essential components:
1 COURSE SKILLS
The course skills are central to the study and practice of economics.
Help students develop and apply the described skills on a regular basis
over the span of the course.
2 COURSE CONTENT
Thecoursecontentisorganizedintocommonlytaughtunitsofstudy
that provide a suggested sequence for the course. These units comprise
the content and conceptual understandings that colleges and universities
typically expect students to master to qualify for college credit and/or
placement.Thiscontentisgroundedinbigideas,whicharecross-cutting
concepts that build conceptual understanding and spiral throughout
the course.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description CourseFramework V.1 | 13
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 21 ---
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
--- Page 22 ---
1 AP MICROECONOMICS
Course
Skills
The AP Economics skills describe what a student should be able to do while
exploring course concepts. The table that follows presents these skills, which
students should develop during the AP Microeconomics and AP Macroeconomics
courses. These skills form the basis of the tasks on the AP Exam.
The unit guides later in this publication embed and spiral these skills throughout
the course, providing teachers with one way to integrate the skills in the course
contentwithsufficientrepetitiontopreparestudentstotransferthoseskillswhen
taking the AP Exam. Course content may be paired with a variety of skills on the
AP Exam.
More detailed information about teaching the course skills can be found in the
Instructional Approaches section of this publication.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description CourseFramework V.1 | 15
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 23 ---
AP MICROECONOMICS
AP Economics Skills
Skill Category 1 Skill Category 2 Skill Category 3 Skill Category 4
Principles and Interpretation 2 Manipulation 3 Graphing and
Models 1 Explain given economic outcomes. Determine outcomes of specific Visuals 4
economic situations.
Define economic principles and models. Model economic situations using
graphs or visual representations.
SKILLS
1.A 2.A 3.A 4.A
Describeeconomic Usingeconomic Determinetheoutcome Drawanaccurately
concepts, principles, concepts, principles, or of an economic situation labeled graph or visual to
or models. models, explain how a using economic concepts, represent an economic
specificeconomicoutcome principles, or models. model or market.
1.B
Identifyaneconomic occurs or what action should
3.B 4.B
concept, principle, or model be taken in order to achieve a Determinetheeffect(s) Demonstrateyour
illustrated by an example. specificeconomicoutcome. of one or more changes on understandingofaspecific
other economic markets. economic situation on an
1.C Identifyaneconomic 2.B Usingeconomic accurately labeled graph
3.C
concept, principle, or model concepts, principles, or Determinetheeffect(s) or visual.
using quantitative data models, explain how a of a change in an economic
4.C
or calculations. specificeconomicoutcome situation using quantitative Demonstratetheeffect
1.D occurs when there are data or calculations. of a change in an economic
Describethesimilarities, multiple contributing situation on an accurately
differences,andlimitations variables or what multiple labeled graph or visual.
of economic concepts,
actions should be taken in
principles, or models.
ordertoachieveaspecific
economic outcome.
2.C
Interpretaspecific
economic outcome
using quantitative data
or calculations.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description CourseFramework V.1 | 16
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 24 ---
2 AP MICROECONOMICS
Course
Content
Based on the Understanding by Design® (Wiggins and McTighe) model, this course
framework provides a clear and detailed description of the course requirements
necessaryforstudentsuccess.Theframeworkspecifieswhatstudentsmust
know, be able to do, and understand, with a focus on big ideas that encompass
core principles and theories of the discipline. The framework also encourages
instruction that prepares students for advanced economics coursework.
Big Ideas
The big ideas serve as the foundation of the course and allow students to create
meaningful connections among concepts. They are often abstract concepts or
themes that become threads that run throughout the course. Revisiting the big
ideas and applying them in a variety of contexts allows students to develop deeper
conceptual understanding. Below are the big ideas of the course and a brief
description of each:
BIG IDEA 1: SCARCITY AND MARKETS (MKT)
Limited resources and unlimited wants result in the need to make choices.
In a market economy, the choices of buyers and sellers determine market
prices and the allocation of scarce resources.
BIG IDEA 2: COSTS, BENEFITS, AND MARGINAL ANALYSIS (CBA)
Therearetrade-offsassociatedwithanydecision.Makingoptimaldecisions
requiresevaluatingtheadditionalcostsandbenefitsofpossibleactions.
BIG IDEA 3: PRODUCTION CHOICES AND BEHAVIOR (PRD)
Firmsseektominimizecostsandmaximizeprofits,whichinfluencestheir
production decisions in the short run and long run.
BIG IDEA 4: MARKET INEFFICIENCY AND PUBLIC POLICY (POL)
Privatemarketscanfailtoallocateresourcesefficiently,andwell-designed
publicpolicycanendeavortopromotegreaterefficiencyandequityin
the economy.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description CourseFramework V.1 | 17
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 25 ---
UNITS
basedonascheduleinwhichtheclassmeetsfivedays
Thecoursecontentisorganizedintocommonly a week for 45 minutes each day, with the assumption
taught units. The units have been arranged in a logical that there are approximately 70 instructional days per
sequence frequently found in many college courses semester. While these recommendations have been
and textbooks. made to aid planning, teachers should of course adjust
the pacing based on the needs of their students,
The six units in AP Microeconomics and their weighting
alternate schedules (e.g., block scheduling), or their
onthemultiple-choicesectionoftheAPExamare
school’s academic calendar.
listed below.
TOPICS
Pacing recommendations at the unit level and on the
Course at a Glance provide suggestions for how to teach Each unit is broken down into teachable segments
the required course content and administer the Personal called topics. The topic pages (starting on page 34)
Progress Checks. The suggested class periods are contain the required content for each topic.
Units Exam Weighting
Unit 1: Basic Economic Concepts 12–15%
Unit 2: Supply and Demand 20–25%
Unit 3: Production, Cost, and the Perfect Competition Model 22–25%
Unit 4: Imperfect Competition 15–22%
Unit 5: Factor Markets 10–13%
Unit 6: Market Failure and the Role of Government 8–13%
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description CourseFramework V.1 | 18
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 26 ---
Spiraling the Big Ideas
The following table shows how the big ideas spiral across units.
Big Ideas Unit 1 Unit 2 Unit 3 Unit 4 Unit 5 Unit 6
Basic Supply and Production, Imperfect Factor Market
Economic Demand Cost, and Competition Markets Failure and
Concepts the Perfect the Role of
Competition Government
Model
Scarcity and
Markets
MKT
Costs, Benefits,
and Marginal
Analysis
CBA
Production
Choices and
Behavior
PRD
Market
Inefficiency and
Public Policy
POL
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description CourseFramework V.1 | 1199
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 27 ---
Course at
UNIT Basic Economic UNIT Supply and
a Glance 1 2
Concepts Demand
~9–11 12–15% ~13–15 20–25%
Class AP Exam Class AP Exam
Periods Weighting Periods Weighting
Plan MKT 1.1 Scarcity MKT 2.1 Demand
1 4
The Course at a Glance provides
MKT 1.2 Resource Allocation MKT 2.2 Supply
ausefulvisualorganizationofthe
and Economic Systems
1 4
AP Microeconomics curricular
components, including: MKT 1.3 Production MKT 2.3 Price Elasticity of
§ Possibilities Curve Demand
Sequence of units, along 4 3
with approximate weighting
MKT 1.4 Comparative MKT 2.4 Price Elasticity of
and suggested pacing.
Supply
1 3
Please note, pacing is based
on45-minuteclassperiods, CBA 1.5 Cost-Benefit Analysis MKT 2.5 Other Elasticities
meetingfivedayseachweek
1 3
for a full academic semester.
§ CBA 1.6 Marginal Analysis and MKT 2.6 Market Equilibrium
Progression of topics within
Consumer Choice and Consumer and
each unit. 2
2 Producer Surplus
§
Spiraling of the big ideas and
skills across units. MKT 2.7 Market Disequilibrium
and Changes in
Teach
3 Equilibrium
S Sk K il I l L ca L t e C go A r T ie E s G sp O ira R l I t E hr S oughout the course. POL 2.8 The Effects of
Government
1 Principles and 3 Manipulation Intervention in
4
Models Markets
2 Interpretation 4 Graphing and
Visuals POL 2.9 International Trade
and Public Policy
4
BIG IDEAS
Big ideas spiral across topics and units.
MKTScarcity and PRD Production
Markets Choices and
Behavior
CBA Costs, Benefits,
and Marginal POL Market
Analysis Inefficiency and
Public Policy
Assess
Assign the Personal Progress
Checks—eitherashomework
orinclass—foreachunit.
Each Personal Progress Check
containsformativemultiple-
choiceandfree-response
questions. The feedback from
the Personal Progress Checks
shows students the areas where Personal Progress Check 1 Personal Progress Check 2
they need to focus.
Multiple-choice: ~20 questions Multiple-choice: ~25 questions
Free-response: 2 questions Free-response: 2 questions
§ §
Short Short
§ §
Short Short
V.1 | 20
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 28 ---
Production, Cost,
UNIT UNIT Imperfect UNIT
3 and the Perfect 4 5 Factor Markets
Competition
Competition Model
~11–13
Class
22–25%
AP Exam
~8–10
Class
15–22%
AP Exam
~6–8
Class
10–13%
AP Exam
Periods Weighting Periods Weighting Periods Weighting
PRD 3.1 The Production PRD 4.1 Introduction to PRD 5.1 Introduction to
Function Imperfectly Competitive Factor Markets
1 1
1 Markets
PRD 3.2 Short-Run Production PRD 5.2 Changes in Factor
4 Costs PRD 4.2 Monopoly Demand and Factor
3 Supply
4
PRD 3.3 Long-Run Production
1 Costs PRD 4.3 Price Discrimination PRD 5.3 Profit-Maximizing
Behavior in Perfectly
4
CBA 3.4 Types of Profit 2 Competitive Factor
Markets
1 PRD 4.4 Monopolistic
Competition
CBA 3.5 Profit Maximization 4 PRD 5.4 Monopsonistic
Markets
2 PRD 4.5 Oligopoly and Game 2
Theory
2
PRD 3.6 Firms’ Short-Run
Decisions to Produce
and Long-Run
2 Decisions to Enter
or Exit a Market
PRD 3.7 Perfect Competition
4
Personal Progress Check 3 Personal Progress Check 4 Personal Progress Check 5
Multiple-choice: ~20 questions Multiple-choice: ~15 questions Multiple-choice: ~10 questions
Free-response: 2 questions Free-response: 2 questions Free-response: 1 question
§ § §
Short Short Short
§ §
Short Long
V.1 | 2211
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 29 ---
Market Failure
UNIT
6 and the Role of
Government
~9–11 8–13%
Class AP Exam
Periods Weighting
POL 6.1 Socially Efficient and
Inefficient Market
2 Outcomes
POL 6.2 Externalities
4
POL 6.3 Public and Private
Goods
1
POL 6.4 The Effects of
Government
Intervention in
4 Different Market
Structures
POL 6.5 Inequality
1
Personal Progress Check 6
Multiple-choice: ~15 questions
Free-response: 2 questions
§
Short
§
Long
V.1 | 22
© 2022 College Board
--- Page 30 ---
AP MICROECONOMICS
Unit
Guides
Introduction
Designed with input from the community of AP Microeconomics
educators,theunitguidesofferteachershelpfulguidanceinbuilding
students’skillsandknowledge.Thesuggestedsequencewasidentified
throughathoroughanalysisofthesyllabiofhighlyeffectiveAPteachers
andtheorganizationofcommonlyassignedclassroomresources.
This unit structure respects new AP teachers’ time by providing one
possible sequence they can adopt or modify rather than having to
buildfromscratch.Anadditionalbenefitisthattheseunitsenablethe
AP Programtoprovideinterestedteacherswithformativeassessments—
thePersonalProgressChecks—thattheycanassigntheirstudentsat
the end of each unit to gauge progress toward success on the AP Exam.
However,experiencedAPteacherswhoaresatisfiedwiththeircurrent
courseorganizationandexamresultsshouldfeelnopressuretoadopt
these units, which comprise an optional sequence for this course.
AP Microeconomics Course and Exam Description CourseFramework V.1 | 2233
Return to Table of Contents
© 2022 College Board